[MUSIC]
In this video, we will talk about
the exploration-exploitation trade-off of
the Bayesian optimization.
But firstly, let me remind you key
points about the Bayesian optimization.
So the Bayesian optimization is
a method of finding the optimum
of expensive cost functions.
This cost function is also called
objective function and denoted as f.
It supposed that calculation of
f at one point is expensive.
And the derivatives of these
functions are unknown.
The goal of Bayesian optimization is to
find the optimum of the objective function
using as small number of the function
calculations as possible.
The optimization algorithm is follow.
And the first step finds the objective
function approximation using previously
calculated values, and
solving the regression problem.
Then using the approximation find optimum
point of an acquisition function.
Then, after that, sample the objective
function in this new point,
and repeat all the steps.
There are variety of acquisition
functions, and one of them used in this
video is Lower Confidence Bound for
the object function minimization.
The Bayesian optimization with Gaussian
processes allows to balance between
exploration and
exploitation of the objective function.
Exploration is when you choose a point
with high variance at each
iteration of the optimization.
And exploitation,
it's when you choose a point with high or
low mean at each iteration
of the optimization.
Adjustable parameters of
the acquisition functions
provide trade-off between exploration and
exploitation.
To study the exploration-exploitation
properties of the Bayesian optimization,
consider the following
objective function f.
The goal in this example
is to find its minimum.
Let's start the optimization
from three observations.
Firstly, consider
the exploitation property.
Exploitation can be achieved
with a small values of k
parameter in lower
confidence bound function.
After ten iterations, we have almost
all observations in the local minimum.
And there are just few observations
in other regions of the function.
After 20 iterations, we again have almost
all observations in the minima regions,
and there are just few
observations in other regions.
This is the exploitation property of
the Bayesian optimization with Gaussian
processes.
The key features of
the exploitation are follow.
So exploitation takes a new
point at each iteration
close to found optimum of
the objective function.
There is no guarantee that
this optimum is global.
Other regions of the objective
function are not explored, and
it needs less iterations that for
exploration to find the optimum.
Now consider the exploration property
of the Bayesian optimization.
Exploration can be achieved
with large values of k
in lower confidence bound function.
In the exploration case all observations
are distributed through the whole region.
The target function is explored
during the Bayesian optimization.
After twenty iterations,
all observations are again
distributed through the whole region.
And this is exploration property
of the Bayesian optimization with
Gaussian processes.
So during the exploration,
it's taken a new point at each iteration
where the variance of the approximation
of the objective function is large.
All regions of the objective
functions are explored.
It's more likely that
the found optimum is global.
And it needs more iterations than for
exploitation to find the optimum.
Finally, we have learned
the Bayesian optimization.
Bayesian optimization is a method of
finding the optimum of expensive cost
functions.
We know how it works and how to use
the exploration-exploitation trade-off during the optimization.
In high energy physics, Bayesian
optimization with Gaussian processes
can be used for
detector design optimization.
In the next video,
we consider two examples of
the optimization in high energy physics.
[MUSIC]